# Advanced IMAP client 
The developed project implements a **non-standard IMAP4 client in Python** for personal use which, by connecting after a registration/login phase to an IMAP server, allows the execution of various operations for simple and intuitive management of the mailbox. The library on which this program is based , **imaplib**, requires the use of a password for authentication on the server that does not coincide with that of the email normally used. In fact, for now this project has only been tested on the gmail domain and, in this case, this password is automatically generated by going to the security section associated with the email (Security (google.com)) and "App Password".

### Use this repo
In order to use this repo you can easily clone the folder and exploit docker to create a container with all the necessary dependencies. The first thing to do is to create the container by means of the dockerfile. Once you are in the dockerfile directory, run the following command:
```
docker build -t imapclient .
```
Now you can run the container with the following command:
```
docker run -it --name imapclient -v $(pwd):/ImapClient
```
Obviously you can choose a different name for the container and different parameters to run it.

### How to access
The first request involves entering the AccessPassword related to the program (not the email) only if you are already registered. Otherwise, through the 'signup' command, it will be possible to register by entering an email and password and selecting a personal password (Access Password, with a length between 8 and 32 characters) that will allow us to access the associated mailbox directly.

### List of possible commands:
- `man`: Using the 'man' command will provide the list of available functions, and by entering the name of a specific function as a parameter, the description of that particular function will be provided
- `cd`: Change working directory. It takes 1 argument corresponding to the name of the folder you want to move to. To get possible folder names, type 'cd ?'
- `clear`: Clear the terminal. It does not take any argument.
- `view`: Visualize the full content of a specific email. It takes 1 argument corresponding to the UID of the mail to visualize. To get a list of emails with their UIDs, use the command 'show'.
- `show`: Show a list of emails. It has two optional arguments: - A number indicating the length of the email list. - And the keyword 'top' or 'bottom' for showing the newest or oldest emails. Default values are 50 for the length and top for the order. The optional parameters can be in any order.
- `files`: Open the folder containing all attachments. It does not take any argument.
- `exit`: Quit from the IMAP client program. It does not take any argument.
- `delete`: Delete a specific mail. It takes 1 or more arguments corresponding to the mail's UIDs.
- `stats`: Let you visualize statistical information regarding the mailbox by graphical tools. It takes arguments: - spam: for visualizing the percentage of spam emails. - plot days/months/years: for visualizing the number of emails received over a span of time.
- `search`: Let you search with string criteria. It takes multiple arguments separated by a space character. Each argument is formatted as 'field:value', for example, 'from:Google subject:account'. The fields are 'from', 'subject', and 'body' depending on where to search. It's case-insensitive but does not search for partial results; the word has to be complete.
- `logout`: Logout from the current mailbox. It does not take any argument.
- `permit`: Permits notifications of only certain mailboxes or mail objects. It takes two arguments, the first is 'mailbox' or 'subject' depending on the category to permit. The second is the mailbox or subject to permit itself. Once an element is permitted, all denied ones are removed. You can type 'permit all' to set both denying masks to null.
- `deny`: Permits notifications of only certain mailboxes or mail objects. It takes two arguments, the first is 'mailbox' or 'subject' depending on the category to deny. The second is the mailbox or subject to deny itself. Once an element is denied, all permitted ones are removed. You can type 'deny all' to set both denying masks to null.
- `listpermit`: List of the permitted mailboxes or mail objects. It does not take any argument.
- `listdeny`: List of the denied mailboxes or mail objects. It does not take any argument.
